# Question Exercise 2

Task: Research online for 10 more linux commands aside the ones already mentioned in this module.
Submit using your altschool-cloud-exercises project, explaining what each command is used for with examples of how to use each and example screenshots of using each of them.

Instruction: Submit your work in a folder for this exercise in your altschool-cloud-exercises project. You will need to learn how to embed images in markdown files.

# 1. Create User:

The useradd command is used to create a new user. The -m flag creates a home directory for the new user, and the -s option specifies the login shell (in this case, /bin/bash).
```
sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash newuser
```

# 2. Set Password:
The passwd command is used to set or change the password for a user.
```
sudo passwd newuser
```

# 3. Checking all users from directory of users
The /etc/passwd file contains information about all the users on the system, including their home directories and shells.
```
/etc/passwd
```

# 4. Check specific User:
```grep```  searches for the user in the /etc/passwd file to check if the user exists or to retrieve specific user information.
```
grep newuser /etc/passwd or id newuser
```
# 5. Switch User:
 The ```su``` command allows you to switch to another user. The - option provides a login shell with the user's environment.

```
su - newuser
```
# 6. Create Group:
```groupadd``` creates a new group that users can be added to.
```
sudo groupadd newgroup
```

# 7. Add User to Group:
```
sudo usermod -aG newgroup newuser
```
### Explanation
This user modification (usermod) helps to add user to a group,  using - ``` -aG ``` parameters where
```

  -G, --groups GROUPS           new list of supplementary GROUPS
  -a, --append                  append the user to the supplemental GROUPS
                                mentioned by the -G option without removing
                                the user from other groups

```
The output note in this explanation was generated by running the help command ``` usermod --help```

# 8.  Check groups from directory
This command lists all groups on the system from the /etc/group file.
 ```
 cat /etc/group
```

# 9.  Check Network Configuration:
displays the network interface configuration, including IP addresses, netmask, and more.
```
ifconfig
```

# 10. Modify user permissions on a file

```
chmod 755 filename
```
7 = 4+2+1 where 4 is read, 2 is write
1 is execute in that order. 755 here means userpermission group permission others permissions (in that order). 7=4+2+1 for user so read(4), write(2) and execute(1), group =5 (read 4, execute 1)
